Samsung's QD OLED technology has been
winning Awards left and right including
here on our own channel where we gushed
over it so hard when we first saw it
that we put this in the title as a joke
and then gushed about it some more my
name is plof and I have an aw 3423 DW at
home the alien wear ciola I have the aw
3423 DW but then a few months ago
disaster struck ratings image retention
testing found that despite Samsung's
claim to the contrary not only did QD
OLED suffer Burnin it was worse than
conventional OLED Technologies which is
a super weird thing to point out 30
seconds into a video that is sponsored
by Samsung display this time that is
unless it turned out that everything was
actually fine and Samsung's confidence
in the technology has been entirely
warranted and they are confident not
only did they not bother to send over
pretty much any sponsored talking points
they gave us cart blanch to run any
tests we wanted on the new generation
cuti OLED displays under this
sheet so we did and these things are
wild Brandon our display expert from the
lab described them as basically perfect
in every way I am talking near reference
monitor levels of color accuracy
unbeatable viewing angles and for all
you Gamers out there here's a spoiler
this is a Pur suit camera shot showing
motion blur on the
1440p 360 HZ panel the motion blur I
know right what motion blur oh yeah and
did I mention for all the ultrawide
haters out there that the new ones are
available in a 16x9 aspect ratio I
freaking can't wait to game on these
things floof already told me he's buying
one yeah got him it's true keep an eye
out on Facebook Marketplace for his old
Alienware
[Music]
we're going to kick things off with the
31 1/2 in 4k display this one only runs
at 240 HZ but between the motion Clarity
and just the overall image sharpness is
4K Esports gaming coming you guys I mean
with a powerful enough GPU we've got
this running on a 4090 we are getting
380 frames per second at 4K with anti-
and cranked I don't think I've ever seen
this game look this sharp not even close
like look at these power lines no matter
what angle I look at them from I don't
see any stair stepping okay if I get
this
close now speaking of being this close
I'm sure some of you are looking at this
going not into the whole curve thing but
according to Samsung the panel
technology is flexible both meanings
intended so it's up to the display
integr grer to decide if they want it to
be flat or if they want it to be curved
as good as CS2 looked it is nothing
compared to how Halo infinite looks with
HDR support here but you're going to
notice immediately that we're no longer
able to push 300 plus FPS we're at more
like 150 even on an RTX
490 however just because your graphics
card today can't take full advantage of
a monitor like this doesn't necessarily
mean that you should avoid it I mean
it's not quite in Apple's Pro display
xdr territory for pixel density at this
size 140 pixels per inch looks freaking
awesome not to mention that 240 HZ just
feels good no matter what it is that
you're doing it makes the whole computer
feel more responsive and okay even if
you don't have the budget for the GPU
today there are options to at least get
you close to your target frame rate you
can lower the in-game resolution turn
down your graphics settings you can take
advantage of Technologies like dlss FSR
and XCS or or you can just wait for AMD
and Nvidia to ship something better even
if that last option is kind of a bummer
speaking of bummers one downside of Cu
OLED is color fringing on high contrast
lines and text keeping with the theme of
this video Samsung display is meeting
this feedback headon and was like the
new ones are awesome go ahead and take
pictures we've got nothing to hide so we
did it's still not perfect but at 125%
scaling in Windows to match the size on
the previous gen aw 3423 DW it is
markedly improved then if we move up to
150% scaling which is what you're
looking at right now and pretty normal
for Windows on a 4K display of this size
it's pretty hard to spot I mean I can
see it but only because I'm looking for
it it doesn't bother me so the question
now is how have they improved Clarity so
much both with the fringing and just
overall pixels density it all has to do
with their new Pico inkjet quantum dot
printing process remember QD OLED
technology works by using a blue
self-emitting OLED layer that then
shines through Quantum dots to create
bright and precise colors and to achieve
such a high PPI on a screen this size
they have had to make some serious
changes on both a hardware and software
level not only did they need to work
with the manufacturers to retool the
heads and nozzles for their printing but
the quantum dot formula itself had to
change as well for the right flow the
viscosity needs to be perfect if it's
too thick or too low pressure when
you're spraying it you can end up with
issues like nozzle blockages if it's too
thin you get sub optimal splattering and
what I mean by that is that when the
droplet hits the screen layer you want
it to spread out a little bit but not
too much or it's not going to stay
within the subpixel area it also has to
maintain a specific thickness once it's
landed for the light to pass through it
correctly good Lord that's a lot of
variables and we're only talking about
the panels today so if you want more
details on the various QD OLED monitors
that are going to come out from Samsung
displays Partners you're going to have
to stay tuned to our short circuit
channel for coverage of those but if
they all perform anywhere near as well
as these do wow this 1440p 360 HZ model
has some of the best HDR color accuracy
that we have ever seen outside of
reference monitors that typically cost
tens of thousands of dollars speaking of
Samsung also revealed a 55in QD OLED
reference display the XMP 550 earlier
this year and at only 20 grand it should
be way less than the previous OLED
competition as for our 4K panel out of
the box set to Creator mode our SDR
accuracy was a deltae average
of8 with a maximum of two in HDR set to
Peak 1000 mode with luminance error we
measured an average Delta e of 3.8 and a
maximum of
15.7 that is wild these are also the
first OLED panels to be panone and
panone skin tone validated and the
monitors are reaching 80% coverage of
bt220 while Samsung display is claiming
though we haven't measured this yet that
the TVs will do an otherworldly
90% likely thanks to their increased
Peak brightness of 3,000 nits one of the
keys to this performance is their
Quantum enhancer or as they refer to it
the soul of QD OLED we don't have a ton
of specifics about it but they've used
machine learning to improve the neural
logic that drives the pixels and this is
a staple across all of the new panels
giving us this new level of performance
all while drawing the same amount of
power and while improving longevity
their new compensation algorithm is
supposed to be 1 and a half times better
than before in the monitors and two
times better in the TVs and even the old
one was pretty good it turns out at
least when it worked and that ended up
being a big part of what ratings was
running into when they were testing
Burnin and image retention a lot of the
panels simply weren't running their
proper compensation cycles and panel
refreshes while the competition was so
after some firmware updates and manual
cycling the issues with the previous Gen
2 panels significantly improved now we
haven't done a major burn in test under
worst possible conditions but several
people here at lmg including some who
will never freaking shut up about it
have been daily driving QD OED panels
either as their TV or their monitor for
the last year or two actually that
includes me and so far the previous
generation seems completely fine in
normal use and if this latest 2024
generation really is that much stronger
I think it might finally be time to just
start enjoying this golden age of
Premium tier monitors I've said it
before but I'll say it again this is
truly the new god king of display
technology and what's really cool is if
you want to save a buck and buy the last
generation that's really good too we're
going to have some of the previous QD
monitors linked down below for now I get
to check out the 1440p 360 HZ panel that
you unfortunately can't buy just yet
sorry the image Clarity isn't quite on
par because we're running at
1440p but at this kind of frame rate at
this kind of size 1440p is such a sweet
spot for running even modern AAA games
at very smooth frame rates like I'm
getting anywhere from 220 to 250 frames
per second and it's just oh the motion
Clarity is just unbe freaking believable
don't take my word for it though guys we
took some motion blur shots of smooth
frog so you can see for yourself that is
not a picture of a still image and if
you look closely you can see a teeny
tiny bit of blur in the text above the
frogs but that is basically it
absolutely incredible now let's talk
about latency the 4K panel we looked at
earlier measured 2.7 milliseconds of
latency at 240 HZ and this guy is 2.1
when you consider that the theoretical
perfect latency at 240 and 360 HZ is 2.1
and 1.4 respectively that means each of
these displays is adding about 6 and7
milliseconds of processing time show me
a human who can perceive that and I will
show you a big fat faker one thing to
consider if you're thinking about the
1440p panel over the 4K is that text
Clarity is improved over the previous
gen but not by as much here the new and
improved subpixel layout does help but
it has the same pixel density as before
so color fringing may be noticeable if
you're sensitive to it with that said
this panel measured even better color
accuracy in SDR and HDR in SDR we
measured an average of 0.5 Delta E and A
Max of9 and in HDR it averaged 5.2 and
hit a Max of 12.5 with luminance errors
that is absolutely stunning now one of
the challenges that Samsung display has
faced in figuring out how to Market
these things is that while the
performance is obvious to the eye it's
difficult to explain why it's so good
unless the listener happens to be
familiar with the helmholtz K rash
effect which is an explanation of how
color saturation makes something appear
brighter on One display compared to
another one even if they are both at the
same level of luminance here let me show
you these two images are the same
luminance but the colorful one obviously
pops more and while this effect has been
known for a long time it's been very
difficult to measure but Samsung display
is claiming that now it can be measured
with their new xcr or experienced color
range testing methodology explaining xcr
and other color appearance models like
ccam 16 bit beyond the scope of this
video but we're hoping to have a tech
quickie out later after speaking further
with Samsung displays experts and
getting some other input since obviously
Samsung display is building this out to
Market their own TVs and monitors so you
can stay tuned for that but for now all
you guys need to know is that cuti OLED
can deliver a brighter appearing image
even at the same luminance sauce my
eyes and that's the bottom line but
Samsung wanted us to throw one last
little bit in here shout out the Nobel
Prize winners who helped get us here uh
doctors mongi bendi Alexi ekimov and
Lewis Bruce great job everyone thank you
so much for helping us witness some of
the most amazing display technology that
I've ever seen and thanks again Samsung
display for making this video possible
not only by sponsoring it but even just
like getting us access to the stuff
ahead of time this is the kind of thing
I love to do if you guys enjoyed this
video make sure to check out our review
of the 34in QD OLED version of this from
a couple of years ago it was already
that good and this is even better